.\" Manpage for filepath.
.\" Contact spikeysnack@gmail.com to correct errors or typos.
.ft Helvetica
.TH man 1 "04 Nov 2016" "1.3" "filepath man page"

.SH NAME
filepath\- get the full path of a file

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBfilepath\fP       file 

         	[-w] file

         	[-W] file

		[-h] 

		[-v] 

		
.SH DESCRIPTION 
.P
.TP
filepath returns the full path of a file. 
.P
If the file does not exist it returns nothing.
.P
This is useful for shell scripts and resolving soft links 

to the actual file, which may have a different name.

In that case the actual file name is returned.


.SH USAGE
.B filepath [ options ]  file   \fR
.SH OPTIONS:
.IP -c
continue through errors (default:no)
.IP -d
delimit output with newline
.IP -D<string>  
delimit output with string
.IP -h
print help message
.IP -w
print numerical error if error occurs
.IP -W
print textual   error if error occurs
.IP -v
print version and exit

.SH EXAMPLES
.P
\fR	       filepath  file1  file2  softlink
.RS
		       		 /path/file1 /path/file2 /actual/path/file 

.RE

\fR	       filepath  <nonexistent file>
.RS
		       		 (no output)
.RE

\fR	       filepath  -w <nonexistent file>  
.RS
		       		 (no output)
.RE

\fR	       filepath  -w <nonexistent file> file 
.RS
		       		 /path/file
.RE

\fR	       filepath  -W <file1> <nonexistent file> <file2>  
.RS
		       		 /path/file1 No such file or directory (program quits)
.RE

\fR	       filepath  -W -c file1 <nonexistent file> file2   
.RS
		       		 /path/file1 No such file or directory /path/file2 
.RE

\fR	       filepath /etc/passwd
.RS
		       		(no output)
.RE

\fR 		filepath -w /etc/passwd
.RS
		       		13
.RE
\fR 		filepath -W /etc/passwd
.RS 
		       		access denied
.RE		       

\fR 		filepath -d *
.RS
.RS		       		/path/file1
.RS		       		/path/file2
.RS		       		...
.RE
				
\fR 		filepath -D" : "  *
.RS
.RS		       		/usr/local/src/file_1 : /usr/local/src/file_2 : /usr/local/src/file_3
.RE
.TP


.SH FILES
.TP
/usr/local/bin/filepath
.RI
program binary
.TP
.TP
/usr/local/share/man/man1/filepath.1 
.RI
man page for filepath
.TP
/usr/local/share/doc/filepath/
.RI
documentation for filepath
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
realpath(3)  
.SH BUGS
.P
.TP
filepath ignores by default:
ENOENT (error 2  -- file not found) 

EINVAL (error 22 -- Invalid argument) 

in regular and numerical warning (-w) mode. 

.P
This is on purpose to help it integrate with shell scripts,

which already have facilities for those condtions.

.P

.SH AUTHOR
.RS
Chris Reid (spikeysnack@gmail.com)
.RE
.SH COPYRIGHT @2016-2020 freeware, , unrestricted, no warranty
.RS
Free for non-commercial use.
.RE
